So last thing that I'd like to talk
about are this new structure in CSS that
are called layers.
And it's another @rule like @media or
@supports this one is @layer.
And the, @layer CSS rule is used
to declare a cascade layer and
can also be used to define the order
of precedence in case of multiple
cascade layers, which is really,
really complicated.
But let's try to interpret.
I think a lot of people are thinking about
this as a way of bundling their styles for
distribution purposes.
So in other words, I can bundle
my JavaScript into a component.
I'm gonna bundle my CSS into a layer and
then when you incorporate this into
your own document that
somehow magically whatever
is in that layer will be associated
with that particular JavaScript.
And I'm afraid to tell you that
that isn't necessarily true, but
a layer may help you depending on how
you configure the rest of your CSS.
So let's dig into this
a little bit further.
This is now the chart for how author style
sheets are going to work with layers.
So this is a blow up of
all of the other cascades.
So everything that has to do with user
agent, style sheets, user style sheets,
all of that is all still
part of our cascade, but
now let's just focus on what goes
on in the author stylesheet.
So, what is gonna happen is
that are layered styles, so
you can just think of this as
a grouping of styles that is a layer,
they are going to be
the least specific styles.
And you can indicate exactly what order
you want your layers to appear even if
they are not appearing in that
order within the style sheet,
you can spell out exactly, I want this
layer first, I want this next one second.
Even though there may be distributed all
over your style sheet all over several
style sheets, you can indicate that.
Whatever order you have, the very first
layer is the least specific the last
layer is the most specific but note that,
unlayered styles are gonna take precedence
over anything that are inside of layer.
So if you're not using layers
in your CSS right now, and
you import somebody else's layered CSS,
their styles will not take priority
over yours given the same specificity.
So after that comes our inline styles,
so all of the unlayered styles,
or inline styles, or
animations are still the highest priority,
then we go to the mirror universe.
So we start adding on being important,
the unlayered styles are the least
specific where they're being important.
The layered styles with being important
wind up being more specific, and
the unlayered styles with the being
important wide up being the most specific
until we get to transitions.
So, I am afraid that we
might wind up seeing for
people who think that layers are gonna
to be this useful thing for exporting.
Their styles that are bundled with their
JavaScript are gonna wind up littering
them with bang importance, because then
their styles will take priority over
anything that comes from
your particular environment.
Bear in mind that the goal is, I wanna
import somebody's JavaScript widget
into my document, and I want it to look
like it belongs in the page that I'm on.
So if you litter up your layer with all
the bang important styles, that is not
gonna happen, it'll take on your
styling for your JavaScript widget but
it may not match the branding for
the rest of the webpage.
So, try to avoid the urge of putting
bang importance all over your layers.
The layer syntax,
we could talk about that.
There's a lot of different ways
to call layers in the document,
they are called named layers,
nested layers and anonymous layers.
And so let's just take a quick
peek at the Mozilla web page here,
MDN, and this is gonna show you a bunch
of different ways to include layers.
So here inside of the syntax box, let's
just talk through all of these very very
quickly, the first line there in
that syntax box shows you @layer.
So it tells you we're
gonna talk about a layer.
Then we have a name for that layer.
So you can assign it
whatever name you want.
Obviously, you should make it relatable
to whatever's inside of the layer.
And then you put in your rules.
You can just lift them right after that.
You can also declare
a layer with just a name.
You don't have to put any
styles inside of that layer.
You can simply say that it exists.
The third example is something that you
might put at the top of your CSS style
sheet.
This is going to indicate all of the
layers that you're going to include inside
of this particular style sheet and the
order in which they should be considered.
So if I had layers here let's say that
their names were a, b and c, but yet
in my overall style sheet they
appeared in the order of c,
a, b, they would still be considered
by the cascade in the order that I
list them here in this first line
of code I would say @layer abc.
So abc would be the order in
which they were considered.
And then finally,
you can have an anonymous layer.
As with all things anonymous in
programming that indicates that there is
no name associated with the layer.
So you could just declare an @layer and
put rules inside of it.
But bear in mind that when there's
no name, it can also be manipulated.
So, with a named layer, you can add
rules to it later by calling out
that name layer and
adding on more styles to it.
When you work with an anonymous layer,
you wouldn't be able to do that.
So all of the usual caveats that
are associated with anonymous
apply here to CSS as well.
So I would recommend that
you name your layers.
Now that you have a sense of what
layers are, how the syntax works,
let's dig into this inside
of our GitHub files.
We'll be working in VS Code, and
we're gonna work with somebody
has distributed a component,
it's called add me, and we're going to try
incorporating that into our main document.